index.md, before:

# dynamicpv: Evaluate present values and cost-effectiveness with dynamic pricing and uptake

The goal of ‘dynamicpv’ is to provide a simple way to calculate (net)
present values and outputs from health economic models (especially
cost-effectiveness and budget impact) in discrete time that reflect
dynamic pricing and dynamic uptake.

Dynamic pricing is also known as life cycle pricing; dynamic uptake is
also known as multiple or stacked cohorts, or dynamic disease
prevalence. [Shafrin (2024)](https://doi.org/10.1515/fhep-2024-0014)
provides an explanation of dynamic value elements, in the context of
Generalized Cost Effectiveness Analysis, and [Puls
(2024)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jval.2024.03.006) reviews challenges
of incorporating such dynamic value elements. This package aims to
reduce those challenges.

Through the
[dynpv()](https://msdllcpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/reference/dynpv.html)
function, the package provides calculations of the present values of
costs, life years, QALYs or other payoffs allowing for dynamic uptake
and dynamic pricing. The starting point is a conventional cohort
cost-effectiveness model, such as one computed using the
[heemod](https://cran.r-project.org/package=heemod) package.

## Installation

The package should shortly be available on
[CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/index.html). Installing
from here is simplest, once available.

``` r
# CRAN installation - when available
install.packages("dynamicpv")
```

You can install the development version of *dynamicpv* from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) as follows.

``` r
# Install devtools package if not already installed
install.packages("devtools")

# Install dynamicpv using pak from MSD repository
pak::pak("MSDLLCpapers/dynamicpv")
```

Note that the above does not install vignettes. Vignettes may be viewed
on the [package website](https://msdllcpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/) or
by instead running the following.

``` r
devtools::install_github("MSDLLCpapers/dynamicpv", build_vignettes=TRUE)
```

You should then load the package, alongside some other packages used
here.

``` r
# Load the dynamicpv package
library(dynamicpv)

# Recommended others
library(dplyr)
library(heemod)
library(ggplot2)
library(tidyr)
```

## How to use

There are four vignettes provided.

1.  The [Mathematical
    Framework](https://msdllcpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/math-framework.html)
    vignette
    ([`vignette("math-framework")`](https://MSDLLCpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/math-framework.md))
    describes the motivation and mathematical framework behind this
    package.

2.  The [Net Present
    Value](https://msdllcpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/net-present-value.html)
    vignette
    ([`vignette("net-present-value")`](https://MSDLLCpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/net-present-value.md))
    describes how the package can be used to derive Net Present Values
    of simple cashflows with dynamic pricing and/or dynamic uptake.

3.  The [Cost-Effectiveness
    Applications](https://msdllcpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/cost-effectiveness-applications.html)
    ([`vignette("cost-effectiveness-applications")`](https://MSDLLCpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/cost-effectiveness-applications.md))
    vignette describes how, given a static cost-effectiveness model
    (single cohort, prices constant in real terms), Incremental
    Cost-Effectiveness Ratios may be calculated that allow for dynamic
    pricing and/or dynamic uptake. This is illustrated by taking an
    example three-state partitioned survival model of a new intervention
    for an oncology indication compared to standard of care, with stated
    assumptions for how pricing and uptake may be dynamic. Nominal and
    Real ICERs are plotted over time, illustrating the impact of the
    loss of exclusivity points for each intervention.

4.  The [Budget Impact
    Applications](https://msdllcpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/budget-impact-applications.html)
    ([`vignette("budget-impact-applications")`](https://MSDLLCpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/budget-impact-applications.md))
    vignette describes how, given a static cost-effectiveness model
    (single cohort, prices constant in real terms) and dynamic uptake, a
    budget impact can be readily calculated. The calculations are
    repeated with the dynamic pricing assumptions to illustrate how
    easily this can be done, and examine the differences between a
    budget impact assessment with and without dynamic pricing.

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ MSDLLCpapers/dynamicpv@6d8738434f6c30a3317ad6f2bcd1cfc667ceb174 🚀

index.md, after:

# dynamicpv: Evaluate present values and cost-effectiveness with dynamic pricing and uptake

The goal of ‘dynamicpv’ is to provide a simple way to calculate (net)
present values and outputs from health economic models (especially
cost-effectiveness and budget impact) in discrete time that reflect
dynamic pricing and dynamic uptake.

Dynamic pricing is also known as life cycle pricing; dynamic uptake is
also known as multiple or stacked cohorts, or dynamic disease
prevalence. [Shafrin (2024)](https://doi.org/10.1515/fhep-2024-0014)
provides an explanation of dynamic value elements, in the context of
Generalized Cost Effectiveness Analysis, and [Puls
(2024)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jval.2024.03.006) reviews challenges
of incorporating such dynamic value elements. This package aims to
reduce those challenges.

Through the
[dynpv()](https://msdllcpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/reference/dynpv.html)
function, the package provides calculations of the present values of
costs, life years, QALYs or other payoffs allowing for dynamic uptake
and dynamic pricing. The starting point is a conventional cohort
cost-effectiveness model, such as one computed using the
[heemod](https://cran.r-project.org/package=heemod) package.

## Installation

The package is now available on
[CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/index.html). Installing
from here is simplest, as follows.

``` r
# CRAN installation - when available
install.packages("dynamicpv")
```

You can install the development version of *dynamicpv* from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) as follows.

``` r
# Install devtools package if not already installed
install.packages("devtools")

# Install dynamicpv using pak from MSD repository
pak::pak("MSDLLCpapers/dynamicpv")
```

Installing the development version in this way does not include
vignettes. Vignettes may be viewed on the [package
website](https://msdllcpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/). You can then load
the package, alongside other packages you may find helpful.

``` r
# Load the dynamicpv package
library(dynamicpv)

# Recommended others
library(dplyr)
library(heemod)
library(ggplot2)
library(tidyr)
```

## How to use

There are four vignettes provided.

1.  The [Mathematical
    Framework](https://msdllcpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/math-framework.html)
    vignette
    ([`vignette("math-framework")`](https://MSDLLCpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/math-framework.md))
    describes the motivation and mathematical framework behind this
    package.

2.  The [Net Present
    Value](https://msdllcpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/net-present-value.html)
    vignette
    ([`vignette("net-present-value")`](https://MSDLLCpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/net-present-value.md))
    describes how the package can be used to derive Net Present Values
    of simple cashflows with dynamic pricing and/or dynamic uptake.

3.  The [Cost-Effectiveness
    Applications](https://msdllcpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/cost-effectiveness-applications.html)
    ([`vignette("cost-effectiveness-applications")`](https://MSDLLCpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/cost-effectiveness-applications.md))
    vignette describes how, given a static cost-effectiveness model
    (single cohort, prices constant in real terms), Incremental
    Cost-Effectiveness Ratios may be calculated that allow for dynamic
    pricing and/or dynamic uptake. This is illustrated by taking an
    example three-state partitioned survival model of a new intervention
    for an oncology indication compared to standard of care, with stated
    assumptions for how pricing and uptake may be dynamic. Nominal and
    Real ICERs are plotted over time, illustrating the impact of the
    loss of exclusivity points for each intervention.

4.  The [Budget Impact
    Applications](https://msdllcpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/budget-impact-applications.html)
    ([`vignette("budget-impact-applications")`](https://MSDLLCpapers.github.io/dynamicpv/articles/budget-impact-applications.md))
    vignette describes how, given a static cost-effectiveness model
    (single cohort, prices constant in real terms) and dynamic uptake, a
    budget impact can be readily calculated. The calculations are
    repeated with the dynamic pricing assumptions to illustrate how
    easily this can be done, and examine the differences between a
    budget impact assessment with and without dynamic pricing.
